docs: add copydoc guidance (#14660)
Esri/calcite-components: packages/components/conventions/Documentation.md

- Verify slots and properties/attributes don't use the text "optional" in their descriptions.
- For CSS token properties, avoid the use of forward slashes (`/`) in descriptions as it causes the generated API documentation to be cut off.

### Shared definitions using `@copyDoc`

Usage: Use `@copyDoc` when the same description is shared across multiple components.

- Add shared definitions in [api-extractor.config.ts](../api-extractor.config.ts) within `copyDocDefinitions`.
- Use the `@copyDoc` tag in the component file in place of the description. Other tags, such as `@deprecated` or `@required`, can still be used in conjunction with `@copyDoc`. Example:

```js
/**
 * @copyDoc
 * @deprecated in v5.1.0, removal target v6.0.0 - This property has no effect on the component.
 */
```

> Supported sections: `properties`, `methods`, and `events`

Author: These sections are also supported, but not used in Calcite documentation, so I didn't include them.

- classes
- customElements
- functions
- variables
- interfaces

Author: I edited this part of the code, so it's not outdated. Resolving and asking the question in the new code.

- Verify slots and properties/attributes don't use the text "optional" in their descriptions.
- For CSS token properties, avoid the use of forward slashes (`/`) in descriptions as it causes the generated API documentation to be cut off.

### Shared definitions using `@copyDoc`

> Usage: Use `@copyDoc` when the same description is shared across multiple components.

Reviewer: I think this might better serve as an introductory or why sentence instead of a more technical/matter-of-act one. Something like the below? Feel free to reject or reword 😆
```suggestion
When a description is shared across multiple components, the `@copyDoc` tag should be used. This improves consistency and reduces repetition.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Before this section there isn't a lead up, please add context that folks need to perform the following. Something like:

> To add shared component documentation definitions, perform the following:

Author: Added in this [commit](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/d7d77b41a8f2edfa01cfe8f642953612d6ec187b).

> - Add shared definitions in [api-extractor.config.ts](../api-extractor.config.ts) within `copyDocDefinitions`.

Reviewer 2: Few follow-ups:
- Please add more context to the `copyDocDefinitions`. 
- Also, should more context be added within this bullet point WRT structure? Its not clear what setup is needed, and/or the scope of what can be supported in the `copyDocDefinitions` (e.g. properties, slots, CSS vars, etc.)
- The example below shows a different tag first, there should be a more standard example depicted before showing a more complex one. This ensures folks are aware of structure and also how it compares to other formats.

```suggestion
- Add a shared definition in the [api-extractor.config.ts file](../api-extractor.config.ts) within the `copyDocDefinitions` object.
```

Author: Updated in this [commit](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/d7d77b41a8f2edfa01cfe8f642953612d6ec187b)

> - Use the `@copyDoc` tag in the component file in place of the description. Other tags, such as `@deprecated` or `@required`, can still be used in conjunction with `@copyDoc`. Example:

Reviewer 2: Readability improvement:
```suggestion
- Use the `@copyDoc` tag in the component file in place of the description. Other tags, such as `@deprecated` or `@required`, can still be used in conjunction with `@copyDoc`:
```

>   ```js

Reviewer 2: Should this be .tsx?

Author: Updated all code snippets to match target file type. Reference this [commit](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/deabe4fc1645ba68841ee7ebdc48ca64f7c67998).

  /**
   * @copyDoc
   * @deprecated in v5.1.0, removal target v6.0.0 - This property has no effect on the component.
   */
  ```

> `@copyDoc` support

Reviewer: Nit: maybe a colon would be nice here
```suggestion
`@copyDoc` support:
```

> `@copyDoc` support

Reviewer 2: This section should be part of the bullet points mentioned earlier so folks are aware of what is in scope/supported before getting too deep into the content.

Author: I moved support information above usage and created sections for both in this [commit](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/8bc5096880c0648a02d2e403c3d29c493420e7b2).

> - Supported sections: `properties`, `methods`, and `events`

Author: These sections are also supported. They are not used in Calcite documentation, so I didn't include them.

- classes
- customElements
- functions
- variables
- interfaces

- Unsupported sections: `slots`
- Supported fields: `deprecated`, `description`, `docsTags`, `readonly`, and `return`

> If a component needs different verbiage than an `@copyDoc` description, either:

Reviewer 2: Can you describe why this would be the case? Why would someone want different verbiage? This should showcase an example (not linked) to give folks an idea of what this could look like in practice.

Author: I added more details and examples in this [commit](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/1273796cde4b75cca4f64bb0427a02143ea11554).

> - Use override functions as seen for the [`heading` property in api-extractor.config.ts](../api-extractor.config.ts).

Reviewer 2: More inclusive language and show an example with .tsx:
```suggestion
- Use override functions, such as the [`heading` property in api-extractor.config.ts](../api-extractor.config.ts).
```

> - Add a description in the component file and don't use `@copyDoc`.

Reviewer: Nit: For readability, could add `or` and a comma to the first list item.
```suggestion
- Use override functions as seen for the [`heading` property in api-extractor.config.ts](../api-extractor.config.ts), or
- Add a description in the component file and don't use `@copyDoc`.
```

Author: @isaacbraun I added a lot more content to each bullet point, so I don't think this helps with readability anymore. Would adding the word "Alternatively" to the second bullet help?

Reviewer: I think it makes sense now 👍

> - Add a description in the component file and don't use `@copyDoc`.

Reviewer 2: Can you describe this more? I'm not sure I understand what you are aiming for with this bullet point.

Author: I added more details and examples in this [commit](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/1273796cde4b75cca4f64bb0427a02143ea11554).

> For additional guidance, review the WebGIS reference `@copyDoc` documentation.

Author: I'm not sure if there is a better way to reference this, but I didn't include a link since the documentation isn't public.

Reviewer: We do link to the Web GIS site elsewhere (ex. [Internationalization.md](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/blob/0153f48bc43b25cbdedceb5ec03a2d2fa6ba30c5/packages/components/conventions/Internationalization.md?plain=1#L7), but not sure if we should/shouldn't. 🤔 Would like if we could since it would be nice to have as little repeated doc here as possible. cc @geospatialem 

Separately, Web GIS should have a space:
```suggestion
For additional guidance, review the Web GIS reference `@copyDoc` documentation.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's include the link, it's not ideal, but we want to make it easier to find resources. Since this isn't linked its not clear what the additional guidance is, Please update to include more context. For instance:

> For additional guidance on shared documentation descriptions, review the Web GIS `@copydoc` reference documentation.

Author: I don't feel comfortable adding the link given that it's against policy.

Author: After discussions with the security team, I am comfortable adding this link. 

`For additional guidance, review the [Web GIS Resources `@copyDoc` documentation](https://webgis.esri.com/references/api-extractor/tags-reference#copydoc).
`

- Verify slots and properties/attributes don't use the text "optional" in their descriptions.
- For CSS token properties, avoid the use of forward slashes (`/`) in descriptions as it causes the generated API documentation to be cut off.

### Shared definitions using `@copyDoc`

> When a description is shared across multiple components, the `@copyDoc` tag should be used. This improves consistency and reduces repetition.

Reviewer 2: This seems like something we'd like to make more strict or the recommended approach. Does that seem in alignment with what is proposed? Are there cases where we wouldn't want the team to share descriptions across the components. Reading the text it reads more optional.

For instance, suggestion to read more like a standard/best practice:

> Descriptions that are shared across components should use the `@copyDoc` tag to improve consistency and reduce repetition in the repository.

Author: Updated in [this commit](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/67270b9d7d2005673ba365ae4bda09a9a70d0fc0).

#### Support

- Supported sections: `properties`, `methods`, and `events`
- Unsupported sections: `slots`

> - Supported fields: `deprecated`, `description`, `docsTags`, `readonly`, and `return`

Reviewer 2: This is hard to discern between what is supported and not. This should be simplified with supported vs not making it clear what is supported first and together in one place, rather than having the reader discern between the three bullet points. Something like:

- `@copyDoc` support includes:
    - **Sections**: `properties`, `methods`, and `events`
    - **Fields**: `deprecated`, `description`, `docTags`, `readonly`, and `return`
-  Unsupported in `@copyDoc`:
    - **Sections**: `slots`

Author: Updated in these commits: [1bcee87](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/1bcee8770edfe7755dca8686c3aee92d5f234cb9) and [905a459](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660/changes/905a459eebb4ddfd5a2f0b869a09be25007a2dac)

#### Usage

To add shared component documentation definitions, perform the following:

> - Add a shared definition in the [api-extractor.config.ts file](../api-extractor.config.ts) within the `copyDocDefinitions` object. The `copyDocDefinitions` object stores shared documentation definitions by section, such as `properties`, `methods`, and `events`. The example below adds a shared definition for the `checked` property.

Reviewer 2: nitpick:
Highlighting the example intent could result in more future maintenance, this could be simplified to "For example"

```suggestion
- Add a shared definition in the [api-extractor.config.ts file](../api-extractor.config.ts) within the `copyDocDefinitions` object. The `copyDocDefinitions` object stores shared documentation definitions by section, such as `properties`, `methods`, and `events`. For example with the `properties` section:
```

  ```ts
  copyDocDefinitions: {
    properties: {
      checked: {
        description: "When `true`, the component is checked.",
      },
    ...
  ```

> - Use the `@copyDoc` tag in the component file in place of the description. If a matching category and name exists in `copyDocDefinitions`, in this case `properties` and `checked`, then the documentation will use the associated description. In the example below, the description would read "When `true`, the component is checked."

Reviewer 2: What does `category` and `name` refer to? Should this be `section` and `field` for consistency with the language above, or is this different?

Author: I updated `category` to `section`. I did not rename `name` to `field` since we're using `field` to refer to the items within the section's name's object. Below is a pseudocode depiction of the structure.
```
property (section): {
    name:{
        description (field): some value;
    }
}
```

> - Use the `@copyDoc` tag in the component file in place of the description. If a matching category and name exists in `copyDocDefinitions`, in this case `properties` and `checked`, then the documentation will use the associated description. In the example below, the description would read "When `true`, the component is checked."

Reviewer: Think we should align on `category` vs. `section`. You use `section` often prior to this instance, and I think this is the only instance of `category`. Unless I'm missing something, think this should be changed to `section`.
```suggestion
- Use the `@copyDoc` tag in the component file in place of the description. If a matching section and name exists in `copyDocDefinitions`, in this case `properties` and `checked`, then the documentation will use the associated description. In the example below, the description would read "When `true`, the component is checked."
```

Reviewer 2: Saw this comment after my feedback was posted. +1 for consistent language.

  ```tsx
  /** @copyDoc */
  @property({ reflect: true }) checked = false;
  ```

  - Other tags, such as `@deprecated` or `@required`, can be used in conjunction with `@copyDoc`, such as with the example below.

    ```tsx
    /**
     * @copyDoc
     * @deprecated in v5.1.0, removal target v6.0.0 - This property has no effect on the component.
     */
    ```

In some cases a component may need different verbiage than the default description in `@copyDoc`. For example, most `heading` properties use the verbiage "Specifies the component's heading text." List Item Group uses the more specific description "Specifies the heading text for the nested `calcite-list-item` rows."
To facilitate using a component-specific description either:

> - Use override functions, such as the [`heading` property in api-extractor.config.ts](../api-extractor.config.ts). Name each override function after the target property, method, or event. Override functions give access to API metadata which can be used to customize `@copyDoc` definitions.

Reviewer 2: nitpick, would we want to call these out as sections for consistency?:

```suggestion
- Use override functions, such as the [`heading` property in api-extractor.config.ts](../api-extractor.config.ts). Name each override function after the target `property`, `method`, or `event` section. Override functions give access to API metadata which can be used to customize `@copyDoc` definitions.
```

>   In the override function example below, the `heading` property uses `apiClass.name` to return a specific value for List Item Group.

Reviewer 2: Should this also have a bullet point?

```suggestion
  - In the override function example below, the `heading` property uses `apiClass.name` to return a specific value for List Item Group.
```

  ```ts
  copyDocDefinitions: {
    properties: {
      heading(_apiProperty, apiClass) {
        const descriptionOverrides: Record<string, string> = {
          ListItemGroup: "Specifies the heading text for the nested `calcite-list-item` rows.",
        };

        return {
          description: descriptionOverrides[apiClass.name] ?? "Specifies the component's heading text.",
        };
      },
  ...
  ```

>   Add the typical `@copyDoc` tag in the component `.tsx` file.

Reviewer 2: nitpick for stronger language (also includes the bullet point):
```suggestion
  - Add the `@copyDoc` tag in the component `.tsx` file.
```

  ```tsx
  /** @copyDoc */
  @property({ reflect: true }) heading?: string;
  ```

> - Add a description directly in the component file instead of using `@copyDoc`. Even when a matching `@copyDoc` definition exists, you can choose not to use it and provide a separate description in the component’s .tsx file instead. Below is an example for List Item Group's `heading` property:

Reviewer 2: Update for stronger language and future maintainability (also not necessary with the code comment present):

```suggestion
- Add a description directly in the component file instead of using `@copyDoc`. When a matching `@copyDoc` definition exists, you can choose not to use it and provide a separate description in the component’s .tsx file instead. For instance:
```

  ```tsx
  /** Specifies the heading text for the nested `calcite-list-item` rows. */
  @property({ reflect: true }) heading?: string;
  ```

> For additional guidance, review the Web GIS reference `@copyDoc` documentation.

Reviewer: Think we [decided to link to the Web GIS site](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660#discussion_r3453846808), no?

Author: Added. Reference comment in [this thread](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14660#discussion_r3573385437).

> For additional guidance, review the Web GIS reference `@copyDoc` documentation.

Reviewer 2: Since the link is excluded, how could someone navigate to this part of the documentation?

```suggestion
For additional guidance, review the Web GIS Resources `@copyDoc` documentation within the API Extractor's "Tag reference" section.
```
